README.md, before:

# Intel Container Experience Kits Setup Scripts

Intel Container Experience Kits Setup Scripts provide a simplified mechanism for installing and configuring Kubernetes clusters on Intel Architecture using Ansible.

The software provided here is for reference only and not intended for production environments.

## Quickstart guide

**_NOTE:_** Instruction provided bellow are prepared for deployment done under root user by default. If you want to do deployment under non-root user then read [this](docs/rootless_deployment.md) file first and then continue with following steps under that non-root user.

1. Decide which configuration profile you want to use and export environmental variable.
   > **_NOTE:_** It will be used only to ease execution of the steps listed below.
    - For **Kubernetes Basic Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=basic
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Access Edge Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=access
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Regional Data Center Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=regional_dc
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Remote Central Office-Forwarding Configuration** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=remote_fp
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises for VSS** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem_vss
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises for SW-Defined Factory** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem_sw_defined_factory
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Build-Your-Own Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=build_your_own
        ```

2. Install python dependencies using one of the following methods

    a) Non-invasive virtual environment using pipenv

    ```bash
    pip3 install pipenv
    pipenv install
    # Then to run and use the environment
    pipenv shell
    ```

    b) Non-invasive virtual environment using venv

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    # Then to activate new virtual environment
    source venv/bin/activate
    # Install dependencies in venv
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

    c) System wide environment (not recommended)

    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Install ansible collection dependencies with following command:

    ```bash
    ansible-galaxy install -r collections/requirements.yml
    ```

4. Generate example host_vars, group_vars and inventory files for Intel Container Experience Kits profiles.

   > **_NOTE:_** It is **highly recommended** to read [this](docs/generate_profiles.md) file before profiles generation.

    ```bash
    make examples ARCH=<atom,core,**icx**,spr> NIC=<fvl,**cvl**>
    ```

5. Copy example inventory file to the project root dir.

    ```bash
    cp examples/k8s/${PROFILE}/inventory.ini .
    ```

    or, for VM case:

    ```bash
    cp examples/vm/${PROFILE}/inventory.ini .
    ```

    > **_NOTE:_** For cloud profiles no inventory.ini file is created, as it will be generated during machine provisioning. As a result, step 6 can be skipped.

6. Update inventory file with your environment details.

    For VM case: update details relevant for vm_host

    > **_NOTE:_** At this stage you can inspect your target environment by running:

    ```bash
    ansible -i inventory.ini -m setup all > all_system_facts.txt
    ```

    In `all_system_facts.txt` file you will find details about your hardware, operating system and network interfaces, which will help to properly configure Ansible variables in the next steps.

7. Copy group_vars and host_vars directories to the project root dir.

    ```bash
    cp -r examples/k8s/${PROFILE}/group_vars examples/k8s/${PROFILE}/host_vars .
    ```

    or, for VM case:

    ```bash
    cp -r examples/vm/${PROFILE}/group_vars examples/vm/${PROFILE}/host_vars .
    ```

    or, for Cloud case:

    ```bash
    cp -r examples/cloud/${PROFILE}/group_vars examples/cloud/${PROFILE}/host_vars .
    ```

8. Update group and host vars to match your desired configuration. Refer to [this section](#configuration) for more details.

    > **_NOTE:_** Please pay special attention to the `http_proxy`, `https_proxy` and `additional_no_proxy` vars if you're behind proxy.

    For VM case:
    - update details relevant for vm_host (e.g.: datalane_interfaces, ...)
    - update VMs definition in host_vars/host-for-vms-1.yml - use that template for the first vm_host
    - update VMs definition in host_vars/host-for-vms-2.yml - use that template for the second and all other vm_hosts
    - update/create host_vars for all defined VMs (e.g.: host_vars/vm-ctrl-1.cluster1.local.yml and host_vars/vm-work-1.cluster1.local.yml)
      In case that vm_cluster_name is not defined or is empty, short host_vars file names should be used for VMs
      (e.g.: host_vars/vm-ctrl-1.yml and host_vars/vm-work-1.yml)
      Needed details are at least dataplane_interfaces
      For more details see [VM case configuration guide](docs/vm_config_guide.md)

9. **Mandatory:** Apply patch for Kubespray collection.

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini playbooks/k8s/patch_kubespray.yml
    ```

10. Execute `ansible-playbook`.

    > **_NOTE:_** For Cloud case this step is not used. See the [cloud/](cloud/) directory for more details
    
    > **_NOTE:_** It is recommended to use "--flush-cache" (e.g. "ansible-playbook -i --flush-cache inventory.ini playbooks/remote_fp.yml") when executing ansible-playbook in order to avoid unknown issues such as skip of tasks/roles, unable to update previous run inventory details, etc.
              
    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini playbooks/${PROFILE}.yml
    ```

    or, for VM case:

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini playbooks/vm.yml
    ```

    > **_NOTE:_** VMs are accessible from ansible host via ssh vm-ctrl-1 or ssh vm-work-1

## Configuration

Refer to the documentation linked below to see configuration details for selected capabilities and deployment profiles.

- [SRIOV Network Device Plugin and SRIOV CNI plugin](docs/sriov.md)
- [MinIO Operator](docs/storage.md)
- [Adding and removing worker node(s)](docs/add_remove_nodes.md)
- [VM case configuration guide](docs/vm_config_guide.md)
- [VM multinode setup guide](docs/vm_multinode_setup_guide.md)
- [VM cluster expansion guide](docs/vm_cluster_expansion_guide.md)
- [Non-root deployment guide](docs/rootless_deployment.md)

## Prerequisites and Requirements

- Required packages on the target servers: **Python3**.
- Required packages on the ansible host (where ansible playbooks are run): **Python3.8-3.10 and Pip3**.
- Required python packages on the ansible host.  **See requirements.txt**.

- SSH keys copied to all Kubernetes cluster nodes (`ssh-copy-id <user>@<host>` command can be used for that).
- For VM case SSH keys copied to all VM hosts (`ssh-copy-id <user>@<host>` command can be used for that).
- Internet access on all target servers is mandatory. Proxy is supported.
- At least 8GB of RAM on the target servers/VMs for minimal number of functions (some Docker image builds are memory-hungry and may cause OOM kills of Docker registry - observed with 4GB of RAM), more if you plan to run heavy workloads such as NFV applications.

- For the `RHEL`-like OSes `SELinux` must be configured prior to the CEK deployment and required `SELinux`-related packages should be installed.
  `CEK` itself is keeping initial `SELinux` state but `SELinux`-related packages might be installed during `k8s` cluster deployment as a dependency, for `Docker` engine e.g.,
  causing OS boot failure or other inconsistencies if `SELinux` is not configured properly.
  Preferable `SELinux` state is `permissive`.

  For more details, please, refer to the respective OS documentation.

## Contributing

Contributors, beside basic set of packages, should also install developer packages, using command:

```bash
pipenv install --dev
```

or

```bash
pip install -r ci-requirements.txt
```

### Run lint checks locally

Several lint checks are configured for the repository. All of them can be run on local environment using prepared bash scripts or by leveraging pre-commit hooks.

Prerequisite packages:

- developer python packages (ci-requirements.txt/Pipfile)
- shellcheck
- pre-commit python package

Required checks in CI:

- ansible-lint
- bandit
- pylint
- shellcheck

Check can be run by following command:

```bash
./scrits/run_<linter_name>.sh
```

or alternatively:

```bash
pre-commit run <linter_name> --all-files
```

Commit message:

Reference Architecture 23.07.1
New Components/Features:
- FlexRAN™ Docker container support (timer and XRAN mode test) on 5th Gen Intel® Xeon® Scalable processors (MCC)
- Support for Intel® Video AI Box through new configuration profile - on_prem_aibox
- Integrated Docker Compose 2.12
- Generated Base Containers Dockerfiles for Intel® Video AI Box, including
    aibox-base
      GPU user mode drivers and runtimes (202230714)
      OpenVINO runtime (2022.3)
    aibox-base-dev
      OpenVINO developer tools (2022.3)
    aibox-dlstreamer
      DLStreamer (2022.3)
    aibox-opencv-ffmpeg
      OpenCV (4.7)
      FFMPEG (cartwheel 2023q1)

Updates/Changes:
- Bug fix in Project Sylva validation suite to revise device ID map and readme and config update

New Hardware (Platforms/CPUs/GPUs/Accelerators):
- ADL-S with Arc dGPU
- RPL-P with integrated GPU

Known Limitations/Restrictions:
- N/A (same as RA23.07)

Co-authored-by: Hu, Hao <hao.hu@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Kasanic, Denis <denisx.kasanic@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Li, Yang <yang2x.li@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Long, Zhifang <zhifang.long@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Petar Torre <petar.torre@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Ren, Shu <shu.ren@intel.com>
Co-authored-by: Xu, Guoshu <guoshu.xu@intel.com>

README.md, after:

# Intel Container Experience Kits Setup Scripts

Intel Container Experience Kits Setup Scripts provide a simplified mechanism for installing and configuring Kubernetes clusters on Intel Architecture using Ansible.

The software provided here is for reference only and not intended for production environments.

## Quickstart guide

**_NOTE:_** Instruction provided bellow are prepared for deployment done under root user by default. If you want to do deployment under non-root user then read [this](docs/rootless_deployment.md) file first and then continue with following steps under that non-root user.

1. Decide which configuration profile you want to use and export environmental variable.
   > **_NOTE:_** It will be used only to ease execution of the steps listed below.
    - For **Kubernetes Basic Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=basic
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Access Edge Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=access
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Regional Data Center Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=regional_dc
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Remote Central Office-Forwarding Configuration** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=remote_fp
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises for VSS** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem_vss
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises for AI Box** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem_aibox
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Infrastructure On Customer Premises for SW-Defined Factory** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=on_prem_sw_defined_factory
        ```

    - For **Kubernetes Build-Your-Own Infrastructure** deployment:

        ```bash
        export PROFILE=build_your_own
        ```

2. Install python dependencies using one of the following methods

    a) Non-invasive virtual environment using pipenv

    ```bash
    pip3 install pipenv
    pipenv install
    # Then to run and use the environment
    pipenv shell
    ```

    b) Non-invasive virtual environment using venv

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv venv
    # Then to activate new virtual environment
    source venv/bin/activate
    # Install dependencies in venv
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

    c) System wide environment (not recommended)

    ```bash
    pip3 install -r requirements.txt
    ```

3. Install ansible collection dependencies with following command:

    ```bash
    ansible-galaxy install -r collections/requirements.yml
    ```

4. Generate example host_vars, group_vars and inventory files for Intel Container Experience Kits profiles.

   > **_NOTE:_** It is **highly recommended** to read [this](docs/generate_profiles.md) file before profiles generation.

    ```bash
    make examples ARCH=<atom,core,**icx**,spr> NIC=<fvl,**cvl**>
    ```

5. Copy example inventory file to the project root dir.

    ```bash
    cp examples/k8s/${PROFILE}/inventory.ini .
    ```

    or, for VM case:

    ```bash
    cp examples/vm/${PROFILE}/inventory.ini .
    ```

    > **_NOTE:_** For cloud profiles no inventory.ini file is created, as it will be generated during machine provisioning. As a result, step 6 can be skipped.

6. Update inventory file with your environment details.

    For VM case: update details relevant for vm_host

    > **_NOTE:_** At this stage you can inspect your target environment by running:

    ```bash
    ansible -i inventory.ini -m setup all > all_system_facts.txt
    ```

    In `all_system_facts.txt` file you will find details about your hardware, operating system and network interfaces, which will help to properly configure Ansible variables in the next steps.

7. Copy group_vars and host_vars directories to the project root dir.

    ```bash
    cp -r examples/k8s/${PROFILE}/group_vars examples/k8s/${PROFILE}/host_vars .
    ```

    or, for VM case:

    ```bash
    cp -r examples/vm/${PROFILE}/group_vars examples/vm/${PROFILE}/host_vars .
    ```

    or, for Cloud case:

    ```bash
    cp -r examples/cloud/${PROFILE}/group_vars examples/cloud/${PROFILE}/host_vars .
    ```

8. Update group and host vars to match your desired configuration. Refer to [this section](#configuration) for more details.

    > **_NOTE:_** Please pay special attention to the `http_proxy`, `https_proxy` and `additional_no_proxy` vars if you're behind proxy.

    For VM case:
    - update details relevant for vm_host (e.g.: datalane_interfaces, ...)
    - update VMs definition in host_vars/host-for-vms-1.yml - use that template for the first vm_host
    - update VMs definition in host_vars/host-for-vms-2.yml - use that template for the second and all other vm_hosts
    - update/create host_vars for all defined VMs (e.g.: host_vars/vm-ctrl-1.cluster1.local.yml and host_vars/vm-work-1.cluster1.local.yml)
      In case that vm_cluster_name is not defined or is empty, short host_vars file names should be used for VMs
      (e.g.: host_vars/vm-ctrl-1.yml and host_vars/vm-work-1.yml)
      Needed details are at least dataplane_interfaces
      For more details see [VM case configuration guide](docs/vm_config_guide.md)

9. **Mandatory:** Apply patch for Kubespray collection.

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini playbooks/k8s/patch_kubespray.yml
    ```

10. Execute `ansible-playbook`.

    > **_NOTE:_** For Cloud case this step is not used. See the [cloud/](cloud/) directory for more details
    
    > **_NOTE:_** It is recommended to use "--flush-cache" (e.g. "ansible-playbook -i --flush-cache inventory.ini playbooks/remote_fp.yml") when executing ansible-playbook in order to avoid unknown issues such as skip of tasks/roles, unable to update previous run inventory details, etc.
              
    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini playbooks/${PROFILE}.yml
    ```

    > **_NOTE:_** For on_prem_aibox case, need to add "-b -K" flags for localhost deployment.
    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini -b -K playbooks/on_prem_aibox.yml
    ```

    or, for VM case:

    ```bash
    ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini playbooks/vm.yml
    ```

    > **_NOTE:_** VMs are accessible from ansible host via ssh vm-ctrl-1 or ssh vm-work-1

## Configuration

Refer to the documentation linked below to see configuration details for selected capabilities and deployment profiles.

- [SRIOV Network Device Plugin and SRIOV CNI plugin](docs/sriov.md)
- [MinIO Operator](docs/storage.md)
- [Adding and removing worker node(s)](docs/add_remove_nodes.md)
- [VM case configuration guide](docs/vm_config_guide.md)
- [VM multinode setup guide](docs/vm_multinode_setup_guide.md)
- [VM cluster expansion guide](docs/vm_cluster_expansion_guide.md)
- [Non-root deployment guide](docs/rootless_deployment.md)

## Prerequisites and Requirements

- Required packages on the target servers: **Python3**.
- Required packages on the ansible host (where ansible playbooks are run): **Python3.8-3.10 and Pip3**.
- Required python packages on the ansible host.  **See requirements.txt**.

- SSH keys copied to all Kubernetes cluster nodes (`ssh-copy-id <user>@<host>` command can be used for that).
- For VM case SSH keys copied to all VM hosts (`ssh-copy-id <user>@<host>` command can be used for that).
- Internet access on all target servers is mandatory. Proxy is supported.
- At least 8GB of RAM on the target servers/VMs for minimal number of functions (some Docker image builds are memory-hungry and may cause OOM kills of Docker registry - observed with 4GB of RAM), more if you plan to run heavy workloads such as NFV applications.

- For the `RHEL`-like OSes `SELinux` must be configured prior to the CEK deployment and required `SELinux`-related packages should be installed.
  `CEK` itself is keeping initial `SELinux` state but `SELinux`-related packages might be installed during `k8s` cluster deployment as a dependency, for `Docker` engine e.g.,
  causing OS boot failure or other inconsistencies if `SELinux` is not configured properly.
  Preferable `SELinux` state is `permissive`.

  For more details, please, refer to the respective OS documentation.

## Contributing

Contributors, beside basic set of packages, should also install developer packages, using command:

```bash
pipenv install --dev
```

or

```bash
pip install -r ci-requirements.txt
```

### Run lint checks locally

Several lint checks are configured for the repository. All of them can be run on local environment using prepared bash scripts or by leveraging pre-commit hooks.

Prerequisite packages:

- developer python packages (ci-requirements.txt/Pipfile)
- shellcheck
- pre-commit python package

Required checks in CI:

- ansible-lint
- bandit
- pylint
- shellcheck

Check can be run by following command:

```bash
./scrits/run_<linter_name>.sh
```

or alternatively:

```bash
pre-commit run <linter_name> --all-files
```
